So now we understand some of the core components of creating a CodeBuild build,
let's take a look at creating one.
For our first build, we'll need to set up an S3 bucket and a CodeBuild project,
which will and create a Go executable artifact,
and we're going to store that in another S3 bucket.
In this next demo, we're going to cover the following.
We're going to have a look at creating our build,
and we're going to do that by setting up the S3 buckets we just talked about,
we're then going to upload our source code,
we're going to run the build,
and then we're going to look at managing the artifact.
So let's go ahead and create our bucket, so we'll give it a name of whatever
my initials are and then codebuild‑simplegoapp. I'm going to put it in my
region, Create bucket. And then let's create a folder, and we'll call this
one Source, Save, create another folder.
We'll call this one Artifact, Save. And let's jump into
Source, and then let's upload an Archive.zip of the
buildspec, the go.mod, and the main.go.
Let's upload that. Perfect. Now, let's jump over to the CodeBuild dashboard.
So let's create a build project.
We'll give it a name, CodeBuild‑SimpleGoApp.
I'm not going to add a description, but you can do if you want.
And then let's scroll down to Source. Now, you can
have multiple sources for CodeBuild, which is really cool,
and it integrates really well into CodeCommit,
but we're just going to use Amazon S3 as it's super simple and straightforward.
We'll select our bucket.
We'll select our source key,
I'm not going to give it a source version, and we're going
to select a Managed image, so we'll select Ubuntu, we'll
give it a runtime of Standard,
and then we'll select the 4.0 image that we used locally.
We'll let it use the latest image, and the Environment type is Linux.
We don't need it to be privileged,
and we're going to select an existing service role
that we created in a previous module, which is this one.
We'll select the buildspec file that we've submitted into the source code,
and then we're going to say store our artifacts into Amazon S3 into the
bucket that we created, and then we'll give it a path.
We don't need to package the artifact, we'll keep it as a
Go executable, we'll enable CloudWatch logs, and we'll go
into this into the next demo.
So let's create our build project.
Perfect.
So here's our project.
Let's go ahead and start our build.
You can select a different timeout if you want.
I've already got the source selected, so let's go ahead and start our build.
Now, this might take a few minutes to run, so let's just leave it to do that.
So now that's completed, let's have a look at some of the phase details that
have been output here. So we can actually see some of the phases that we created
in our buildspec file, how long they took, and if they were successful. They
were all successful, so let's jump over to our S3 bucket and have a look at our
artifact. Go into Artifacts, our SimpleGoApp, and then there's our CodeBuild,
and there is our artifact.
How easy was that? CodeBuild makes it so simple to create executable,
binaries, or anything that you need to build and run. So now we have
created a build. Now, let's take a look how to monitor its actions. In
this demo, we're going to cover the following.
We're going to look at the CloudWatch logs and how they
interact with the CodeBuild build. So here I am, back on
the build that we created before.
Let's have a look at what's in Build logs. So in Build logs is all of
the CloudWatch logs and all of the different steps and outputs from
our container that ran our build scripts.
Now, if any of your builds are unsuccessful,
this is the first place you will look to try and debug your
build. And going through here, you can see all of the similar
stuff that we've seen in the phases before.
You can have a look at where it was entering the phase INSTALL,
what commands were run and the output from them.
Scroll down, we can see our BUILD phase down here somewhere
after all of these logs. Here it is, and we can see if it was
successful, and here's the output of the command saying that it
was successful. Really simple,
really straightforward. And this would be your first protocol for
debugging and monitoring your build. So let's have a quick recap of
what we just covered with our CodeBuild module.
We had a look at the prerequisites required to run the builds, we had
a look at planning the build and what's involved in creating them, we
had to go at creating and running a build, and we had a look at
managing the artifacts in S3,
and then we looked at how to monitor and debug our build using the CloudWatch logs that is integrated into the CodeBuild dashboard.